---
title: Introduction to TidyScreen projects
---

TidyScreen projects provide a structured environment for organizing and managing all data, scripts, and results generated throughout your virtual screening workflows. 

This short tutorial will guide you through the essential commands to create, list, and import TidyScreen projects, as well as to understand their directory layout.

We recommend creating a dedicated Python script, for example `workshop.py`, and executing each command within the `tidyscreen` conda environment.

---

## ⚙️ 1. Creating a new project

Start by launching your conda environment in a terminal:

```bash
conda activate tidyscreen
```

You can easily create a new TidyScreen project using the `create_project()` function.

```python title="workshop.py"
# Import tidyscreen module
from tidyscreen import tidyscreen as ts

# Create a new TidyScreen project named "la_workshop_2025" in the working directory
ts.create_project("/PATH/TO/PROJECT/DIR", "la_workshop_2025")
```

:::note[📝 Receptor description]

When prompted, you will need to provide a short **description of the project**.  
Try to include as many relevant details as possible. 
This information will be very useful in the future, especially when your database grows and you manage multiple projects.
:::

```
Input project short description:  
```

You should get the following output: 

`Project 'la_workshop_2025' created at: '/PATH/TO/PROJECT/DIR/la_workshop_2025'.`


## 📁 2. Listing Locally Available Projects

To list all projects registered in your local TidyScreen database, use:

```python title="workshop.py"
ts.projects()
```
`TidyScreen main database found! Continuing...`  
`Project: la_workshop_2025`  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`located at /PATH/TO/PROJECT/DIR/la_workshop_2025`

This command scans the main database and prints all recognized TidyScreen projects on your system, including their paths.


## 📦 3. Importing an Existing Project

If you already have an existing project (for example, from another machine or collaborator), you can import it directly executing the following:

```python title="workshop.py"
ts.import_project()
```
You will be asked to provide the full path where the project to import is located

```
Input the full path to the project to import: 
```

## 🧱 4. Structure of a TidyScreen Project

Each project generated by TidyScreen follows a consistent internal structure composed of several main folders.
These are automatically created when running `create_project()`:

:::note[Structure of TidyScreen projects]
```text
la_workshop_2025/
├── chemspace/          
│   └── ...  # storage of input chemical libraries and processed datasets
├── moldock/            
│   └── ...  # receptor files, docking assays, docking parameters, etc.
├── docking_analysis/   
    └── ...  # post-docking results, fingerprints, and scoring summaries
```

We will be exploring the contents of each folder as this tutorial advances in the next sections.